fix: Plot Chart with Filters (#1902)
appsmithorg/appsmith-docs: website/docs/build-apps/how-to-guides/Display-and-filter-chart-data.md

---
description: This page shows you how to use the Datepicker widget to filter and view Chart data based on specific date ranges.
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Plot Chart with Filters

> This page shows you how to display and filter data in Chart, using the Select and Datepicker widgets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Appsmith offers various types of charts that can help you visualize your data. Charts make it easier to understand data trends and distributions at a glance. In this guide, we will show you how to display and filter chart data.
```

## Prerequisites

> * A [Chart](/reference/widgets/chart) widget to display data.

Reviewer: not a prerequisite.  Dropping a chart is not that hard

* A query that contains the data you want to filter.

> * [Select](/reference/widgets/select) or [Datepicker](/reference/widgets/datepicker) widget to filter the data.

Reviewer: no need to cross-reference either of these or even add it in prerequisites

## Display data in Chart

To display data from a query using the Chart widget, follow these steps:

1. Select a **Chart type** that suits your use case. 

2. Connect the query to the [**Series data**](/reference/widgets/chart#series-data-arrayobject) property of the Chart widget, like:

<dd>

```js
{{fetchData.data}}
```

> If the query data is not in the expected format, you can use the `map()` function to transform it before passing it to the widget, like:

Reviewer: let this be step 3

```js
{{fetchData.data.map( p => ({x: p.gender, y: p.count}))}}
```

Use the **Add Series** property to populate the chart with different sets of data.

>   <figure>

Reviewer: the screenshot does not show multiple series

  <img src="/img/bar-voter.png" style= {{width:"600px", height:"auto"}} alt=""/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i></i></figcaption>
  </figure>  

</dd>

## Filter Chart data 

To filter information based on specific criteria, use widgets like the Datepicker or Select widget for data filtering.

> <Tabs>

Reviewer: lets use subsections instead of tabs

<TabItem value="select" label="Using Select" default>

>  1. Drag a Select widget, and set the [**Source data**](/reference/widgets/select#source-data-arrayobject) property as required.

Reviewer: Drop select widget. Also users might not understand what you mean by set the Source data property as required. Clarify

>  2. Configure the query to fetch data using `selectedOptionValue` reference property.

Reviewer: This is not clear.  The most important step in this section. You need to tell what they are doing here - as in when a option is selected, we want to filter the chart so we have to pass the selected option to query that fetches the data for the chart. There should be no ambiguity

   
  ```sql
   SELECT pl.stock, v.low_stock, l.label
   FROM product_location pl
   WHERE pl.product_variant_id = {{Select_product.selectedOptionValue ? Select_product.selectedOptionValue : 147}};
  ```
  The SQL query selects stock, low stock threshold, and warehouse label from the `product_location` table, filtered by a specified product variant ID. The ID is determined dynamically based on the selected option in Select widget, defaulting to `147` if not provided.
  
  To configure and filter queries for specific datasources, please refer to the [datasource reference](/connect-data/reference).

 3. Connect the query to the **Series data** property of the Chart widget, using `map()` function:

   ```js
   {{getProductWarehouse.data.map( p => ({x: p.label, y: p.stock}))}}
   ```
   
  You can also use a [JSObject](/core-concepts/writing-code/javascript-editor-beta) to create a custom function for displaying data in the Chart.
  
  4. Set the Select widget's **onOptionChange** event to execute the filter query.

  <figure>
  <img src="/img/chart-select0.gif" style= {{width:"700px", height:"auto"}} alt=""/>
  <figcaption align = "center"><i></i></figcaption>
  </figure>  

>    Whenever a user selects a category from the Select widget, the chart dynamically displays the associated products and their available stock. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</TabItem>
 
<TabItem value="date" label="Using Datepicker">

> 

Reviewer: Same comments as in Select

Reviewer: Avoid too many cross references. Only when required
